Activity Manager − Controls all aspects of the application lifecycle and activity stack.

Content Providers − Allows applications to publish and share data with other applications.

Resource Manager − Provides access to non-code embedded resources such as strings, color settings and user interface layouts.

Notifications Manager − Allows applications to display alerts and notifications to the user.

View System − An extensible set of views used to create application user interfaces.

Application components:
	
Activities

They dictate the UI and handle the user interaction to the smart phone screen.

2	
Services

They handle background processing associated with an application.

3	
Broadcast Receivers

They handle communication between Android OS and applications.

4	
Content Providers

They handle data and database management issues.

<activity>elements for activities

<service> elements for services

<receiver> elements for broadcast receivers

<provider> elements for content providers


1	
anim/

XML files that define property animations. They are saved in res/anim/ folder and accessed from the R.anim class.

2	
color/

XML files that define a state list of colors. They are saved in res/color/ and accessed from the R.color class.

3	
drawable/

Image files like .png, .jpg, .gif or XML files that are compiled into bitmaps, state lists, shapes, animation drawable. They are saved in res/drawable/ and accessed from the R.drawable class.

4	
layout/

XML files that define a user interface layout. They are saved in res/layout/ and accessed from the R.layout class.

5	
menu/

XML files that define application menus, such as an Options Menu, Context Menu, or Sub Menu. They are saved in res/menu/ and accessed from the R.menu class.

6	
raw/

Arbitrary files to save in their raw form. You need to call Resources.openRawResource() with the resource ID, which is R.raw.filename to open such raw files.

7	
values/

XML files that contain simple values, such as strings, integers, and colors. For example, here are some filename conventions for resources you can create in this directory −

arrays.xml for resource arrays, and accessed from the R.array class.

integers.xml for resource integers, and accessed from the R.integer class.

bools.xml for resource boolean, and accessed from the R.bool class.

colors.xml for color values, and accessed from the R.color class.

dimens.xml for dimension values, and accessed from the R.dimen class.

strings.xml for string values, and accessed from the R.string class.

styles.xml for styles, and accessed from the R.style class.

8	
xml/

Arbitrary XML files that can be read at runtime by calling Resources.getXML(). You can save various configuration files here which will be used at run time.
